.TH cano 1 2024-1-24 LINUX

.SH NAME
cano - is a VIM inspired modal-based text editor written in C using the ncurses library.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cano
[\fI--options\fR] [\fIfile\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cano
is a small text editor based on kilo that edits file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
outputs version information and exits.

.TP
.BR \-\-config " \fIconfig-file\fR
uses the specified config-file instead of the default config.

.TP
.BR \-\-help " [\fIhelp-page\fR]
opens the specified help-page or the "general" page if no page was specified.

.SH EDITING
Editing a file is fairly easy; you start the editor and start typing the letters that you want.
You can move around with the arrow keys and delete characters with backspace or delete key.

.SH KEY BINDINGS
.B Ctrl+Q
.br
Exit cano.
.br
.B Esc
.br
Enter Normal Mode
.br
.B h	
.br
Move cursor left
.br
.B j	
.br
Move cursor down
.br
.B k	
.br
Move cursor up
.br
.B l	
.br
Move Cursor right
.br
.B x
.br
Delete character
.br
.B g	
.br
Go to first line
.br
.B G	
.br
Go to last line
.br
.B 0	
.br
Go to beginning of line
.br
.B $	
.br
Go to end of line
.br
.B w	
.br
Go to next word
.br
.B b
.br
Go to last word
.br
.B e
.br
Go to end of word
.br
.B o
.br
Create line below current
.br
.B O
.br
Create line above current
.br
.B Ctrl+o
.br
Create line below current without changing mode
.br
.B %
.br
Move to corresponding brace
.br
.B i
.br
Enter insert mode
.br
.B I
.br
Go to beginning of line and enter insert mode
.br
.B a
.br
Insert mode on next char
.br
.B A
.br
Go to end of line and enter insert mode
.br
.B v
.br
Enter visual mode
.br
.B V
.br
Enter visual-line mode
.br
.B u
.br
Undo
.br
.B U
.br
Redo
.br
.B /
.br
Enter search mode
.br
.B n
.br
Jump to next
.br
.B Ctrl+s
.br
Save and exitr
.br
.B r
.br
Replace current char with next character
.br
.B (n) + motion
.br
Repeat next motion (n) times
.br
.B Ctrl+n
.br
Open file explorer
.br

.SH FILES
.TP
.BR ~/.config/cano/config.cano
The default config file.

.TP
.BR ~/.local/share/cano/help
The directory, where all help-pages are stored.

.SH BUGS
.TP
You can report any bugs to \fIhttps://github.com/CobbCoding1/Cano/issues\fR.


.SH AUTHOUR
.TP
Mainly developed by \fICobbCoding\fR. You can see other contributers in the github page \fIhttps://github.com/CobbCoding1/cano\fR.

.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
Apache-2.0 License

.SH HOMEPAGE
.TP
.I https://github.com/CobbCoding1/cano
